# Abstract
This study aimed to replicate and expand upon previous research by Bányai et al. (2017) to investigate the relationship between excessive social media use and mental health outcomes in adolescents. Given the high prevalence of depression in Australia and its significant impact on healthcare costs and productivity, understanding the relationship between social media engagement and mental health is crucial. The study utilised survey data from 6,018 Hungarian adolescents. The survey contained questionnaires on the **Bergen Social Media Addiction Scale (BSMAS)**, **Centre for Epidemiological Studies Depression (CES-D) scale**, and **Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES)**. The authors employed **Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA)** to check the validity of the BSMAS and **Latent Profile Analysis (LPA)** to identify an 'at-risk' group with high BSMAS scores. The results concluded that the BSMAS is a valid scale to measure social media addiction and the 'at-risk' group was associated with lower self-esteem, higher depression symptoms, and excessive social media use. Subsequently, this study expanded upon the original study and employed **Structural Equation Modelling (SEM)** to examine whether these associations were attributable to the direct influence of BSMAS or the contribution of other unobserved variables. The results indicated that while BSMAS had a direct influence on CES-D, it did not directly influence RSES, suggesting that other unobserved variables might have influenced the association between the 'at-risk' group and low self-esteem. Further research was needed to identify these underlying variables.

# Reference
A replicative study on the topic of "Problematic Social Media Use: Results from a Large-Scale Nationally Representative Adolescent Sample" by Bányai et al. 

https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0169839
